welcome back to movietella this time i'm
gonna treat you to a 1995 science
fiction film called twelve monkeys
starring bruce willis
a deadly virus released in 1996 wipes
out almost all of humanity forcing
survivors to live underground
a group known as the army of the 12
monkeys is believed to have released the
virus
in 2035 james cole is a prisoner living
in an underground compound beneath
philadelphia
coal is selected to be sent back in time
to find the original virus to help
scientists develop a cure
meanwhile cole is troubled by dreams
involving a foot chase and shooting at
an airport
cole arrives in baltimore 1990 not 1996
as planned he is arrested and
incarcerated at a mental hospital on the
diagnosis of dr catherine raley
there he encounters jeffrey goins a
mental patient with environmentalist and
anti-corporatist views
cole is interviewed by a panel of
doctors where he tries to explain that
the virus outbreak has already happened
after an escape attempt cole is sedated
and locked in a cell but he disappears
waking up back in 2035.
cole is interrogated by the scientists
who play a distorted voicemail message
that asserts the association of the army
of the twelve monkeys with the virus
he has also shown photos of numerous
people suspected of being involved
including goins
the scientists offer cole another chance
to complete his mission and send him
back in time
cole accidentally arrives at a
battlefield during world war one is shot
in the leg and then transported to 1996.
in 1996 rayleigh gives a lecture about
the cassandra complex to a group of
scientists
at the post-lecture book signing
rayleigh meets dr peters who tells her
that apocalypse alarmists represent the
same vision while humanity's gradual
destruction of the environment is the
real lunacy
cole arrives at the venue after seeing
flyers publicizing it and when rayleigh
departs he kidnaps her and forces her to
take him to philadelphia
they learn that goings is the founder of
the army of the 12 monkeys before they
set out in search of him
when they confront goins he denies any
involvement with the group and says that
in 1990 cole originated the idea of
wiping out humanity with a virus stolen
from going's virologist father
cole is transported back to 2035 where
he reaffirms to the scientists his
commitment to his mission
but when he finds rayleigh again in 1996
he tells her he now believes himself
crazy as she had suggested
meanwhile rayleigh has discovered
evidence of his time travel which she
shows him believing he is sane
they decide to depart for the florida
keys before the onset of the plague
they learned that the army of the twelve
monkeys was not the source of the
epidemic the group's major act of
protest is releasing animals from a zoo
and placing goyin's father in an animal
cage
at the airport cole leaves a message
telling the scientists that following
the army of the 12 monkeys is the wrong
track and he will not return
cole is confronted by jose his cellmate
from his own time who gives cole a
handgun and instructs him to follow
orders
rayleigh spots dr peters and recognizes
him from a newspaper as an assistant of
goyne's father
peters is about to embark on a tour of
several cities that match the locations
of the viral outbreaks
cole forces his way through a security
checkpoint in pursuit of peter's
after drawing the gun he was given coal
is shot by police
as cole lies dying in raley's arms
rayleigh suddenly begins to scan the
crowd around her
rayleigh finally makes eye contact with
a small boy the young james cole
witnessing the scene of his own death
which will replay in his dreams for
years to come
peters aboard the plane with the virus
sits down next to jones one of the
scientists from the future who comments
that her job is insurance
a young cole watches the plane take off
from the ground
if you enjoyed this video help me grow
my channel by subscribing